---
layout: page
title: "About"
description: "Wonder what I've been doing for the last N years, N > 0?"
header-img: "../img/about-bg.jpg"
---

# A quick summary
As an undergrad I studied Biology but mostly I studied Physics. Late during in
my Physics studies I was thrilled by programming. In my thesis I developed a
model that simulated the transmission of a signal through a neuron to the
brain. Brain, I always admired this organ. So how do I combine all these
interesting things together.

And here comes **Bioinformatics**!

In my PhD years I worked on RNA biology and developed bioinformatics tools to
predict miRNA gene targets and consequently integrate miRNAs in gene
regulatory networks. Now I work as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of
Pennsylvania where I continue to work with small RNAs (piRNAs, miRNAs) but
also work with RNA binding proteins. Particularly I'm interested in
decyphering the role of RNA biding proteins in Amyotrophic Lateral Schlerosis
(ALS) and their effect on the neurons.

See now how all these things are connected?


# Education

* 2007 - 2011: PhD in Bioinformatics

	*Biomedical Science Research Center “Alexander Fleming”, Greece*

	*Martin Luther Universität Halle Wittenberg, Germany*

* 2002 - 2007: Physics

	*National Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece*

* 2001 - 2002: Biology
	
	*National Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece*

# Positions

* 2011 - present: Post-Doctoral Fellow 

	*Zissimos Mourelatos lab, Department of Pathology and
	Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
	Philadelphia, PA.*

* 2007 - 2011: Scholar

	*Biomedical Science Research Center “Alexander Fleming”*

# Awards

* 2013

	Brody Foundation Fellowship Award For Incurable Diseases

* 2007

	Biomedical Science Research Center “Alexander Fleming” scholarship.

# Selected Publications

*  *A MicroRNA precursor surveillance system in quality control of MicroRNA
synthesis.*, **Mol Cell**, 2014.

*  *FUS regulates genes coding for RNA binding proteins in neurons by binding
to their highly conserved introns.*, **RNA**, 2013.

*  *Identification of in vivo, conserved, TAF15 RNA binding sites reveals the
impact of TAF15 on the neuronal transcriptome.*, **Cell Reports**, 2013.

*  *Target RNA repertoire of Mili and Miwi reveals piRNA biogenesis and
function of Miwi in spermiogenesis.*, **Nat Struct Mol Biol**, 2012.

*  *Editing of Epstein-Barr virus-encoded BART6 miRNAs controls their dicer
targeting and consequently affects viral latency.*, **J Biol Chem.**, 2010.

*  *DIANA-microT web server: elucidating miRNA functions through target
prediction.*, **Nucleic Acids Res.**, 2009.

*  *Accurate miRNA target prediction correlates with protein repression
levels.*, **BMC Bioinformatics**, 2009.

# Full Publication List

*  Liu X, Zheng Q, Vrettos N, Maragkakis M, Alexiou P, Gregory BD, Mourelatos
Z., *A MicroRNA precursor surveillance system in quality control of MicroRNA
synthesis.*, **Mol Cell**, 2014.

*  Nakaya T, Alexiou P, Maragkakis M, Chang A, Mourelatos Z., *FUS regulates
genes coding for RNA binding proteins in neurons by binding to their highly
conserved introns.*, **RNA**, 2013.

*  Ibrahim F, Maragkakis M, Alexiou P, Maronski AM, Dichter AM, Mourelatos Z.,
*Identification of in vivo, conserved, TAF15 RNA binding sites reveals the
impact of TAF15 on the neuronal transcriptome.*, **Cell Reports**, 2013.

*  Vourekas A, Zheng Q, Alexiou P, Maragkakis M, Kirino Y, Gregory BD,
Mourelatos Z., *Target RNA repertoire of Mili and Miwi reveals piRNA
biogenesis and function of Miwi in spermiogenesis.*, **Nat Struct Mol Biol**,
2012.

*  Vlachos IS, Kostoulas N, Vergoulis T, Georgakilas G, Reczko M, Maragkakis
M, Paraskevopoulou MD, Prionidis K, Dalamagas T, Hatzigeorgiou AG., *DIANA
miRPath v. 2.0: investigating the combinatorial effect of microRNAs in
pathways.*, **Nucleic Acids Res.**, 2012. 

*  Reczko M, Maragkakis M, Alexiou P, Grosse I, Hatzigeorgiou AG., *Functional
microRNA targets in protein coding sequences.*, **Bioinformatics**, 2012. 

*  Reczko M, Maragkakis M, Alexiou P, Papadopoulos GL, Hatzigeorgiou AG., 
*Accurate microRNA target prediction using detailed binding site accessibility
and machine learning on proteomics data.*, **Frontiers in genetics**, 2011.

*  Vergoulis T, Vlachos IS, Alexiou P, Georgakilas G, Maragkakis M, Reczko M,
Gerangelos S, Koziris N, Dalamagas T, Hatzigeorgiou AG., *TarBase 6.0:
capturing the exponential growth of miRNA targets with experimental support.*,
**Nucleic Acids Res.**, 2011.

*  Maragkakis M, Vergoulis T, Alexiou P, Reczko M, Plomaritou K, Gousis M,
Kourtis K, Koziris N, Dalamagas T, Hatzigeorgiou AG., *DIANA-microT Web server
upgrade supports Fly and Worm miRNA target prediction and bibliographic miRNA
to disease association.*, **Nucleic Acids Res.**, 2011.

*  Alexiou P, Maragkakis M, Hatzigeorgiou AG., *Online resources for miRNA
analysis.*, **Journal of Nucleic Acids Investigation**, 2011.

*  Iizasa H, Wulff BE, Alla NR, Maragkakis M, Megraw M, Hatzigeorgiou A,
Iwakiri D, Takada K, Wiedmer A, Showe L, Lieberman P, Nishikura K., *Editing
of Epstein-Barr virus-encoded BART6 miRNAs controls their dicer targeting and
consequently affects viral latency.*, **J Biol Chem.**, 2010.

*  Grau J, Arend D, Grosse I, Hatzigeorgiou AG, Keilwagen J, Maragkakis M,
Weinholdt C, Posch S., *Predicting miRNA targets utilizing an extended profile
HMM.*, **25th German Conference on Bioinformatics**, 2010.

*  Dalamagas, T, Farmakakis, T, Maragkakis, M, Hatzigeorgiou, AG., *FreePub:
Collecting and Organizing Scientific Material Using Mindmaps.*, **3rd
International Workshop on Semantic Web Applications and Tools for the Life
Sciences**, 2010.

*  Alexiou P, Maragkakis M, Papadopoulos GL, Simmosis VA, Zhang L,
Hatzigeorgiou AG., *The DIANA-mirExTra web server: from gene expression data
to miRNA function.*, **PLoS One**, 2010. 

*  Alexiou P, Maragkakis M, Papadopoulos GL, Reczko M, Hatzigeorgiou AG.,
*Lost in translation: an assessment and perspective for computational miRNA
target identification.*, **Bioinformatics**, Review, 2009. 

*  Maragkakis M, Alexiou P, Papadopoulos GL, Reczko M, Dalamagas T,
Giannopoulos G, Goumas G, Koukis E, Kourtis K, Simossis VA, Sethupathy P,
Vergoulis T, Koziris N, Sellis T, Tsanakas P, Hatzigeorgiou AG., *Accurate
miRNA target prediction correlates with protein repression levels.*, **BMC
Bioinformatics**, 2009.

*  Papadopoulos GL, Alexiou P, Maragkakis M, Reczko M, Hatzigeorgiou AG.,
*DIANA-mirPath: Integrating human and mouse miRNAs in pathways.*,
**Bioinformatics.**, 2009.

*  Maragkakis M, Reczko M, Simossis VA, Alexiou P, Papadopoulos GL, Dalamagas
T, Giannopoulos G, Goumas G, Koukis E, Kourtis K, Vergoulis T, Koziris N,
Sellis T, Tsanakas P, Hatzigeorgiou AG., *DIANA-microT web server: elucidating
miRNA functions through target prediction.*, **Nucleic Acids Res.**, 2009.

