---
layout:     post
title:      "Perl to Go"
subtitle:   "Switching from an interpreted to a compiled language"
date:       2016-01-26 22:00:00
header-img: "img/bg.jpg"
---

In our lab we work with High Throughput Sequencing data on a daily basis.
Until now, our programming language of choice has been Perl, mostly for
historical reasons, as Python or Ruby could equally fit in. I learned to love
Perl and until now I never had to look back. Perl has fulfilled all
requirements we had and it's probably not a coincidence that it has dominated
the bioinformatics field for years. However, I feel that the time has come for
a change.  It's not that Perl is not a good fit anymore but it kind of isn't.

Trying to cope with the amount of data currently produced by sequencing
machines can be a daunting task. Perl often feels sluggish even for simple
things such as parsing a file. Even though we have seen this for a few years
now we have been reluctant to change our language of choice. The question is:
why?

The answer is simple and manifests itself in every article in favor of
interpreted languages - it is so easy to build stuff. Bioinformatics is a
field at the front-end of science where requested analyses are rarely well
defined a priori and most often we have little insight beforehand of what we
are looking for in the data. We have to improvise and follow leads as we get
along with the analysis. In other words we are often in prototyping mode and
obviously this is where interpreted languages shine.

So why do I think a change is needed?

Two reasons. First, because as I already mentioned Perl is too slow for the
massive datasets we have to handle and second, but equally important, to
reduce the cost of running our analyses on the cloud.

Optimally, we would need an alternative language that is as expressive as Perl
or at least close to it and which would result in a significant performance
boost. I believe that such an alternative can be Go.

I started working with Go a few months ago and I have to say I'm pretty
impressed of how well it went. First, I feel that I'm writing cleaner and
better code. Second, it's fast, really fast! Third, the type system acts as a
safety net that gives the impression that if the code compiles, then most
likely it's doing what it's supposed to be doing. Finally, it's the
concurrency.  It's just so easy to write concurrent code in Go.

I have to note, that still, when I need something urgent, Perl is the first
thing that pops into my head. At some level, this indicates that I'm still not
that comfortable with Go, but I think that as I'm getting more accustomed to
it, I will be comfortable enough to switch to Go as my main programming
language.

Without having any concrete data to support this I feel that I'm writing 50%
more code in Go compared to an equal program in Perl but in return I usually
get 10x better performance.

In his post [Hardware is Cheap, Programmers are
Expensive](http://blog.codinghorror.com/hardware-is-cheap-programmers-are-expensive)
Jeff Atwood argues that seeking the optimal algorithmic solution can often be
more expensive than actually buying more hardware to compensate for the
inefficiencies. The reason is that a developers compensation far outlays the
hardware cost.

> Clearly, hardware is cheap, and programmers are expensive. Whenever you're
> provided an opportunity to leverage that imbalance, it would be incredibly
> foolish not to.

Extending this idea to programming languages, I think that right now, the
sweet spot of language expressiveness versus performance is in favor of Go. I
personally think it's worth investing 50% more effort for approximately 10x
performance improvement and lower cloud costs.
